1. Insulate your home 
Heating your living space can be an expensive and energy-intensive process. By insulating places like your loft and walls, you can make sure your home retains heat during the winter and stays cool in summer. It means you’ll use less energy, reducing your carbon footprint and your household bills.  
2. Switch to renewables 
Energy providers around the world are now offering greener tariffs. By switching to a company that provides electricity from solar, wind, or hydroelectric energy, you can reduce your household emissions and save money on your energy bills. You could even install solar panels if they’re readily available where you live. 
3. Buy energy efficient 
Electrical appliances are becoming more efficient by the year. What’s more, many countries now show how efficient particular products are, meaning you can make an informed choice. Whether it’s buying energy-saving light bulbs or choosing appliances with a high energy star rating, you can make your home more eco-friendly. Additionally, make sure to turn off and unplug anything you’re not using. 
4. Use less water 
It takes energy and resources to process and deliver water to our homes. What’s more, it’s also quite energy-intensive to heat it once it’s there. So, by using less, you can help the environment and lower your carbon footprint. Try turning off the taps when brushing your teeth, having short showers rather than baths, and only boiling the water you need. 
5. Change your diet
The food we eat can have a significant impact on the environment. For example, meat and dairy products require a lot of land, water and energy to produce. They also create a lot of methane, a greenhouse gas. What’s more, food shipped from overseas uses a lot more resources than local produce. 
By eating fewer animal products, especially red meat, (or choosing a plant-based diet) and shopping for locally sourced food, you can make a big difference.  Why not support your local farmers’ market?
How to reduce your carbon footprint at work
Reducing emissions is something that you can do outside of the home too. Whether you make individual changes at work or company-wide policy adjustments, your activities can soon add up. 
6. Turn off the lights 
Powering empty rooms and office space is a huge energy drain. By making sure you turn off lights and appliances when they’re not in use, you can make sure you’re not wasting power. You could also request to install automatic, movement-sensing lights and energy-saving LED bulbs to address the issue. 
7. Go digital 
It’s never been easier to collaborate with others online. Whether through sharing documents using cloud storage or video conferencing instead of travelling, you can reduce your waste and emissions. Try moving away from printed documents where possible, and encourage others to work on their digital skills for the workplace. 
8. Cycle to work 
Cycling and walking are two of the most environmentally friendly ways to travel. And, not only are they good for the planet, but they’re also good for your health. If you can, choose to cycle or walk to work where possible. Your employer might even have a scheme that can help you purchase a bike. 
9. Reduce, reuse, recycle 
Companies of all sizes use a host of different products in their day-to-day running. Whether it’s things like paper, electronic devices, packaging, or water, it all has a carbon footprint. By reducing the amount of waste you generate, reusing IT equipment, and recycling waste, you can make a real difference. 
10. Eliminate single-use plastic 
Single-use plastics may be convenient, yet they’re fairly dreadful for the environment. Not only do they pollute our waterways and oceans, but they also require energy to produce and recycle. You can stop using things like disposable coffee cups and cutlery to reduce your company’s carbon footprint. 

No matter whether you’re a staff member or a student, you can bring some positive changes to your school to reduce your carbon footprint. Here are just a few ideas: 
11. Raise awareness 
Your school community might not know much about things like greenhouse gases, carbon footprints, or climate change. You can change that by raising awareness of these issues. Things like school projects and fundraising events can help to educate students and their families about the importance of protecting the environment. This can help those around you to reduce their footprints. 
12. Compost 
Composting is surprisingly good for the environment, particularly when food waste is such a big issue. By setting up a composting scheme at your school, you can help to reduce landfill methane emissions. What’s more, this type of compost is free, doesn’t use energy to produce, and is good for your school gardens. 
13. Switch off computers 
An IT lab with rows of idling computers takes up a lot of energy. You can reduce your school’s energy bills and carbon footprint by keeping electronic devices turned off and unplugged when they’re not in use. 
14. Use local food 
This is a tip that can apply to just about every area of life. Locally-grown produce takes less energy to transport and supports the economy where you live. If you can get your school to switch to local and sustainable food for the kitchen, you can help save the planet and help local businesses. 
15. Take local trips 
Sticking with the theme of your surrounding area, try and work towards field trips that are nearby. Instead of going to far-flung destinations that require planes, trains, or busses, stick to something close by. Your emissions will be far lower, and you’ll contribute to your community. 
How to reduce your carbon footprint when travelling 
As we’ve already seen, travel can cause a significant amount of carbon emissions. However, by making a few small adjustments, you can make sure your trips have as low an impact as possible. 
16. Use public transport
Petrol cars and taxis tend to emit a lot of carbon dioxide per kilometre of travel. These greenhouse gas emissions are usually only spilt between a few people, making it quite an energy-intense way to get around. Public transport such as trains, busses, and coaches carry many people and are often more sustainable forms of travel.  
17. Fly direct 
The carbon footprint of flying is larger than any other mode of transport. While the Eurostar, for example, emits around 6g of CO2 per kilometre travelled, a domestic flight produces 133g of CO2 and 121g of other emissions.  When you do fly, you should aim to reduce the number of stops on your route, ideally by flying directly to your destination. 
18. Offset your carbon
Many airlines and travel companies now offer you the chance to offset your carbon emissions. Essentially, this is where you pay money on top of the cost of your ticket to fund projects aimed at reducing your carbon footprint. These carbon offsets cover all kinds of incentives, such as restoring forests and making energy and transportation more efficient. 
19. Pack a water bottle
Although you often can’t take liquids in your carry-on luggage, you can pack a water bottle on anything you’re checking-in. Having a reusable container for your water means you can cut down on one-use plastic bottles. This can cut your carbon footprint for the manufacture and transport of each bottle. 
20. Think green 
No matter how far you travel, you can take an environmentally friendly approach when you reach your destination. As well as choosing green accommodation and ethical destinations, you can also think about the tours and attractions you take. Try and walk, cycle, or use public transport, eat local food, and leave as light a carbon footprint as possible.